# Data-science-and-Machine-learning-projects
Kaggle Project :  Google Analytics Customer Revenue Prediction

Aim:  Predict how much GStore customers will spend

Libraries used :  Numpy, Pandas, Json, Matplotlib, seaborn, Sklearn

Language used :  Python

Steps:

Firstly, the given trainv2.csv data has nested dictionaries as values in columns and hence it is not accessible by reading it as pandas csv file. Therefore, we are flattening the nested Json columns and taking the data in chunks of 100,000 entries at a time as it is a huge data ( 17,08,337 entries ) to import at once.

Then, after the data has been imported we are checking the DataFrame and the info, then we are finding the percentage of null/NaN values in the entire dataset.

Then, filling the null values of output column ( totals.transactionRevenue ) with 0, converting each value into float datatype, and applying the log(x+1) function ( the required output form). 

Then, the columns with null values are filled with 0. And, since the Machine learning algorithms only take int,float or boolean values as input, the categorical columns have to be mapped to particular values using Label Encoding.

Then, correlate the dataset and plot the Heatmap to check for features ( columns ) that are having high correlation, as we donot want any dependent features. The features, visitStarttime and visitId have high correlation and hence one of them is dropped.

Exploratory data analysis part:

Then, some Exploratory data analysis using Visualization to find any patterns or trends. There is significant insights that can be derived from these visualizations.
1. Chrome browser has the highest number of usage and generates the highest revenue. 
2. Safari browser has 4 times usage as Firefox browser, still revenue generated by Firefox browser higher than Safari browser by almost 100%. Hence, there is some potential to derive more transaction from Safari Browser users by targeting them more.
3. The date doesnot offer any potential insights against Revenue.
4. Desktop outnumber the mobile and other users in terms of revenue. Hence, there might be some potential to make the mobile interface or applications more user friendly and trustworthy.
5. Macintosh users generate almost twice the revenue as windows users and 4 times as much as chrome OS.
6. United states outnumber all other countries in terms of revenue.
7. India has almost 100,000 number of usage, yet they generate almost Nill revenue. Hence, the Indian market can be targeted with custom products and services.

Training Part:

For the input features, taking only the numerical and label encoded features and dropping others. For output, taking log(x+1) predicted values.

Split the data into 35% test data and 65% training data for training algorithm.

Using RandomForestRegressor to fit and predict the data. And checking for rmse value for model valuation.

Import the testv2.csv data and apply same transformations as trainv2.csv data. Then, feed it to RandomForestRegressor model to get predicted log(x+1) values.

Then, take log inverse and sum revenue values with respect to unique fullvisitorid and then take log(x+1) to get the final output.

Save the dataframe with fullvisitorid and predictedlogrevenue as columns.




